# Recurrsive vs Iterative Dp
## Recursive
- Slower (Runtime)
- More space intensive (recursion call stack)
- We do not need to care about the flow in which the states are being calculated
- Does not calculate unnecessary states
- Cannot apply many optimisations
## Iterative
- Faster (no stack call which comes with recursion).
- Less space intensive.
- Important to calculate the states in such a way that any state can be formed using the states smaller than it
- Calculates all the possible states
- Can apply alot of optimisations(mainly space)

- Althought the tc of the process nearly remains the same, an iterative approach is always faster than a recursive approach due to the lack of time taken to call the functions at every step. 
- Also, in the recursive approach, we need to for the previous state if that state has been calculated or not, but in the iterative manner, we don't have to do that. (No need for memoisation, because since we are increasing, we know that all the steps would be not calculated)
## Sample code for dice combinations (iterative)
```cpp
void solve() {
	int n;
	cin >> n;
	ll dp[n + 1];
	dp[0] = 1ll;
	for (int i = 1; i <= n; ++i)
	{
		dp[i] = 0ll;
		for (int j = 1; j <= min(6, i); ++j)
		{
			dp[i] = (dp[i] + dp[i - j]) % mod;
		}
	}
	print(dp[n]);

}
```
- The code is also much easier to code and looks cleaner as well as compared to the iterative one.
- It is more difficult to think of an iterative dp solution as compared to an recursive one, because generally, all the values would depend on some of the previous onces. Hence, we need to find out that the values of all the previous states have been calculated and that too in the correct way. 
- Recursive Dp -> Memoization is the main point of focus
- Iterative Dp -> The order and setting the base cases need to be the main point of focus. 

# General Techniques to solve an DP problem
1. State - Clearly define the subproblem. Understand what do you actually mean when you say `dp[i][j]` . What does it represent exactly. Define the parameters such that the states are different from each other
2. Transition - Define a clear relation between the states. Assume that all the previous states are being calculated. Don't fret over them for now
3. Base case - What happens when the transition fails? Answer them seperately before you move ahead. (can be multiple as well)
4. Final Problem - What is the final problem that you are looking to solve. This depends upon two things:
	1. The question
	2. How have you defined the states

# Space Optimisation
- We actually do not need to store the values of all the states while solving the problem iteratively. We can just store only those many states on which the value of the current state depends upon and discard the other one. 
- Note that we would only be able to discard the values iff we are certain that the value will never come in us to us in the future. 
	`we must thing if we need the values for all the subproblems just we just need a selected few`
- For example, in the dice combination problem, we just need the values of the last 6 places. So we just shold carry those many along with us, and not all of them.
- But keep in mind, while doing so, we are just optimising for space, not for time. 
 ## Sample Space Optimisation code for Dice Combinations
 ```cpp
 void solve() {
	int n;
	cin >> n;
	vll prev(6, 0ll);
	prev[5] = 1ll;
	vll curr(6, 0ll);
	for (int i = 1; i <= n; i++) {
		for (int j = 1; j < 6; ++j) {
			curr[j - 1] = prev[j] * 1ll;
		}
		curr[5] = accumulate(prev.begin(), prev.end(), 0ll) % mod;
		prev = curr;
	}
	print(curr[5]);
}
```
- For this problem, we can see that to remove the previous states, we now have to added a factor of O(6) for the problems. 
- For this it is fine, but for the other problems where the current states depends upon the other k states, we are actually increase the tc by a factor of O(k).
- To avoid this, we can use a deque, which allows us to insert at the front and pop at the back

## Importance of space optimisation and why do we need it?
- We can have a solution which runs in O(10<sup>8</sup>) time, but we cannot have a SC of  O(10<sup>8</sup>). 
- At max, we can have a sc of  O(10<sup>7</sup>). 