# Cycling DP states:
- What if your dp state was dependent on itself?
	- eg `dp[i] = dp[i-1] + dp[i-2] + dp[1]`
	- If we go normally by recurrsion, this would reseult in an infinite loop (or a cycle). But still such cases are solveable. 
 ## Example: 
 `Given a positive integer N <= 1e6, at every step the following 3 things can happen to N with equal probability.  N = N / 2 , N = N - 1, N remains unchanged. Find expected number of steps it will take to convert for N to become 0`

- State: `dp[n]: expected number of ways to make n equal to zero`
- Transition: `dp[n] = (1 + dp[n/2])/3 + (1 + dp[n-1])/3 + (1 + dp[n])/3 ` we can write it in this way because all the states are equally probable. 
	- On rearraning: `2/3 * dp[n] = 1 + dp[n-1]/3 + dp[n/2]/3`
	- This is solvable:
- base case `dp[0] = 0`
- final answer `dp[n]`

- So we can clearly say that although the equation would look unsolvable, but still we can solve it . 
- However, if there is no rearrangement possible, then we will have infinitely manny possibilities for `dp[n]` and this is when it is not solvable. 
	- **If n is DIRECTLY dependant on n (without any fraction or multiplication) then we will have infinitely many possiblities for dp[n]**

# Distinguishing between DP and greedy problems. 
- Number of ways problems cannot be solved by using a greedy approach: this is because a greedy approach only limits itself to one of the cases. 
	- Two options to solve this: dp or recursion (brute force). Or we can think of a brute force approach which we can memoise into two
	- Very rarely, we can also apply a premutation combination based approach. 
- Small constraints: if the constraints are smaller, then we can think of applying a dp approach. 
	- If n is less than 1000, then we can easily apply a nxn greedy solution. 

-   Try to reduce the transition time by using some Data Structure or some clever observation if transition time is the bottleneck
    
-   Never try to over optimize. If your current states and transition time fit into your Time Limit, just code it and do not optimize it further.

# Identifying states based on the constraints:
- if n <= 125
	- `dp[n][n][n] with a constant transition time`
	- `dp[n][n] with a linear transition time `
- if n <= 5000
	-  `dp[n][n] with a constant transition time `
	-  `dp[n] with a linear transition time `
- if n <= 100000
	- `dp[n] with a constant transition time `
**`